.\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 2005-2018 Gentoo Foundation
.\" Distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL version 2 or later
.\"
.TH wine.eselect 5 "February 2018" "Gentoo Linux" eselect
.SH NAME
wine.eselect \- Gentoo management module for switching between installed multislot \fBapp-emulation\fR/\fBwine-\fR{\fBstaging\fR,\fBvanilla\fR} package versions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eselect wine \fR[\fBhelp\fR|\fBusage\fR|\fBversion\fR]
.br
.B eselect wine deregister\fR\t [\fIvariant\fR]...\fB\t\t\t\fR[\fB--force\fR]\fB \fR[\fB--verbose\fR]\fB \t \fItarget\fB
.br
.B eselect wine list\fR\t\t     [[\fIvariant\fR]...|\fB--all\fR]\fB
.br
.B eselect wine register\fR\t   [\fIvariant\fR]...\fB\t\t\t\t\t\fR[\fB--verbose\fR]\fB \fR[\fB--commit=\fRCOMMIT]\fB \fR[\fB--date=\fRDATE]\fB \fItarget\fB
.br
.B eselect wine set\fR\t\t      [\fIvariant\fR]...\fB\t\t\t\fR[\fB--force\fR]\fB \fR[\fB--if-unset\fR]\fB \t \fItarget\fB
.br
.B eselect wine show\fR\t\t     [[\fIvariant\fR]...|\fB--all\fR]\fB
.br
.B eselect wine unset\fR\t\t    [[\fIvariant\fR]...|\fB--all\fR]\fB\t\fR[\fB--force\fR]\fB \fR[\fB--clean\fR]\fB
.br
.TP
.br
.TP
.SH \fIvariant\fR
.br
[\fB--staging\fR|\fB--vanilla\fR|\fB--wine\fR*]  (* default)
.br
.TP
.SH \fItarget\fR
.br
\fRFully qualified wine package name and version (\fB${PN}\fR:\fB${PV}\fR or \fB${P}\fR)
 or the associated entry number (as displayed in \fBeselect wine list\fR output).
.TP
.SH \fICOMMIT\fR
.br
SHA-1 Git commit for a live build of \fBapp-emulation\fR/\fBwine-\fR{\fBstaging\fR,\fBvanilla\fR}.
.TP
.SH \fIDATE\fR
.br
Git commit date for a live build of \fBapp-emulation\fR/\fBwine-\fR{\fBstaging\fR,\fBvanilla\fR}.
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBeselect wine\fR \- is the Gentoo management module for switching between installed multislot
\fBapp-emulation\fR/\fBwine-\fR{\fBstaging\fR,\fBvanilla\fR} package versions.
.br
The currently active package is selectable for each wine variant.
.br

In addition a \fBwine\fR target is used to select the currently globally active default Wine package version.
.br
This active \fBwine\fR target will have symbolic links in global system paths which would directly conflict with the pre-existing \fBapp-emulation\fR/\fBwine\fR:0 package.

This eselect module uses symbolic links at:

   (1) ${EPREFIX}/usr/bin/*                               (binaries)
   (2) ${EPREFIX}/usr/lib{32,64}/*                        (libraries)
   (3) ${EPREFIX}/usr/include/wine[-variant]              (include)
   (4) ${EPREFIX}/usr/share/applications/*                (applications)
   (5) ${EPREFIX}/usr/share/man/*                         (manuals)

targeting (1) executable, (2) library, (3) include headers, (4) desktop, and (5) manpage files (respectively) - for the currently active (variant) package version.
.br

Details of the installed and currently active Wine package for each wine variant are stored in global configuration files:

       ${EROOT}/etc/eselect/wine/installed
       ${EROOT}/etc/eselect/wine/active

Records are also maintained of all the symbolic links in place for the currently active Wine packages (for each wine variant) in:

       ${EROOT}/etc/eselect/wine/links/[variant]

Metadata for multislot wine packages is stored in a seperate file for each package:

       ${EROOT}/etc/eselect/wine/${PN}-${PV}

Git commit and commit date are the only currently supported metadata fields (for use with live targets).

These metadata fields are displayed (as additional columns) by the \fBeselect wine list\fR and \fBeselect wine show\fR commands.
.br

.PP

.br

.PP
.br
.SH ACTION: DEREGISTER
.B eselect wine deregister \fR[\fIoption\fR]... \fR[\fIvariant\fR]... \fItarget\fB
.br
Deregister a multislot wine package with the eselect module - for the specified wine variant(s)  (** \fIinternal use only\fR **).
.br
.TP
.SH \fIoption
.br
\fB--force\fR      Forcibly remove a package.
.br
\fB--verbose\fR    Print detailed information about operations being performed.
.br
.TP
.SH \fIvariant
.br
\fB--staging\fR    Deregister a package with wine variant 'wine-staging'.
.br
\fB--vanilla\fR    Deregister a package with wine variant 'wine-vanilla'.
.br
\fB--wine\fR*      Deregister a package with system 'wine' (* default).
.br
.TP
.SH \fItarget
.br
\fRFully qualified wine package name+version or list entry number (see above).
.br

.br

.br
.SH ACTION: LIST
.B eselect wine list \fR[\fIvariant\fR]...
.br
Displays an ordered list of all available wine versions - for the specified wine variant(s).
.br
An asterisk, next to one of the listed targets, denotes the currently active wine (variant) version.
.br
.TP
.SH \fIvariant
.br
\fB--all\fR            List all available targets.
.br
\fB--staging\fR        List all available wine variant 'wine-staging' targets.
.br
\fB--vanilla\fR        List all available wine variant 'wine-vanilla' targets.
.br
\fB--wine\fR*          List all available system 'wine' targets (* default).
.br
.PP
.SH ACTION: REGISTER
.B eselect wine register \fR[\fIoption\fR]... \fR[\fIvariant\fR]... \fItarget\fB
.br
Register a new multislot wine package with the eselect module - for the specified wine variant(s)  (** \fIinternal use only\fR **).
.br
Metadata fields are typically only used / set for live targets.
.br
.TP
.SH \fIoption
.br
\fB--commit\fR=COMMIT  Register a Git commit SHA-1 hash (COMMIT) for the specified target (metadata field).
.br
\fB--date\fR=DATE      Register a Git commit date (DATE) for the specified target (metadata field).
.br
\fB--verbose\fR        Print detailed information about operations being performed.
.br
.TP
.SH \fIvariant
.br
\fB--staging\fR        Register a package with wine variant 'wine-staging'.
.br
\fB--vanilla\fR        Register a package with wine variant 'wine-vanilla'.
.br
\fB--wine\fR*          Register a package with 'wine' (* default).
.br
.TP
.SH \fItarget
.br
\fRFully qualified wine package name+version or list entry number (see above).
.br
.SH ACTION: SET
.B eselect wine set \fR[\fIoption\fR]... \fR[\fIvariant\fR]...
.br
Set the symbolic links for a new wine target version - for the specified wine variant(s).
.br
May also be used to reset the symbolic links for an existing wine version.
.br
.TP
.SH \fIoption
.br
\fB--force\fR          Forcibly set symbolic links - ignore errors.
.br
\fB--if-unset\fR       Don't set specfied target if a valid existing target is already set (for each selected wine variant).
.br
\fB--verbose\fR        Print detailed information about operations being performed.
.br
.TP
.SH \fIvariant
.br
\fB--staging\fR        Set only the wine variant 'wine-staging' symbolic links.
.br
\fB--vanilla\fR        Set only the wine variant 'wine-vanilla' symbolic links.
.br
\fB--wine\fR*          Set only the system 'wine' symbolic links (* default).
.br
.TP
.SH \fItarget
.br
\fRFully qualified wine package name+version or list entry number (see above).
.br
.PP
.SH ACTION: SHOW
.B eselect wine show \fR[\fIvariant\fR]...
.br
Show the active system wine version - for specified wine variant(s).
.TP
.SH \fIvariant
.br
\fB--all\fR            Show the active version for wine and all variants.
.br
\fB--staging\fR        Show the active wine variant 'wine-staging' version.
.br
\fB--vanilla\fR        Show the active wine variant 'wine-vanilla' version.
.br
\fB--wine\fR*          Show the active system 'wine' version (* default).
.br
.PP
.SH ACTION: UNSET
.B eselect wine unset \fR[\fIoption\fR]... \fR[\fIvariant\fR]...
.br
Remove all previously created symbolic links - for the specified wine variant(s).
.TP
.SH \fIoption
.br
\fB--clean\fR          Purge any orphaned symbolic links - associated with this module.
.br
\fB--force\fR          Forcibly remove symbolic links - ignore errors.
.br
\fB--verbose\fR        Print detailed information about operations being performed.
.br
.TP
.SH \fIvariant
.br
\fB--all\fR            Remove symbolic links from wine and all variants.
.br
\fB--staging\fR        Remove the wine variant 'wine-staging' symbolic links.
.br
\fB--vanilla\fR        Remove the wine variant 'wine-vanilla' symbolic links.
.br
\fB--wine\fR*          Remove the system 'wine' symbolic links (* default).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Robert Walker <bob.mt.wya@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR eselect (1)

